---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2025-02-01
permalink: /posts/2025/02/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Erasmus Mundus
  - Photonics
  - Biometrics
  - Intelligent Vision
---

My Erasmus Mundus journey has been a rollercoaster of learning and collaboration. When I joined the Masters in Photonics for Security, Reliability, and Safety, I knew I was signing up for something big. Little did I know that my third semester at UPEC, University Paris-Est Créteil, would open my eyes to the world of Intelligent Vision and Biometrics.


Specializing in Intelligent Vision and Biometrics
------
In my Erasmus Mundus program, there are three specializations. I chose the one at UPEC, which focuses on Intelligent Vision and Biometrics. The other two specializations are Photonics and Machine Learning at UJM and Nanotechnology for ICT at Politecnico di Torino. At UPEC, we dive into subjects like Advanced Biometrics, Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Emerging Technologies in VR, AR, and Speech Processing.


Learning with an International Community
------
At UPEC, I shared classes with students from the International Master in Biometrics. It was amazing to see everyone bring different perspectives from around the world. We all worked on projects—while our project was on the Assessment of Cell Migration by AI, others focused on systems like attendance management and gaze analysis. The projects were hands-on and truly project-oriented, following a continuous learning approach where assessments were mostly done through real work rather than exams.

Diving into VR and AR Development
------
One of the most memorable parts of the semester was the intensive week-long course on Emerging Technologies in VR and AR. We explored the basics of virtual, augmented, and mixed reality, learning about optical principles, stereo vision, 3D tracking, and adaptive rendering. The practical sessions were exciting—we got to try out devices like the HoloLens 2 and Oculus Rift and even developed a small game in Unity that we later enhanced using the Vuforia package. Seeing our work come alive in a virtual world was truly a highlight.

Moving Forward
------
Now, as I get ready for the fourth semester and my master’s thesis, I can’t help but feel grateful for the rich, hands-on experience this journey has given me. It’s not just about the theories or the projects—it’s about growing alongside a talented, international community and learning skills that will shape my future.

Blog posts are cool, and I’d love to hear what you think. Have you ever taken on a project that pushed your limits? Share your thoughts!
